Helen, I'm Dr. Jonathan Barker, pastor here at Amazing Grace Baptist Church in Mount area, North Carolina.
I would like to personally thank you for taking out time today to tune in to our preaching podcast.
We hope that this message will be a great encouragement to your heart today.
Habakkuk chapter number two, let's stand in honor and reverence to the reading of God's word.
Habakkuk chapter number two, verse number one, I will stand upon my watch and set me upon the tower and will watch to see what he will say unto me and what I shall answer when I am reproved.
And the Lord answered me and said, write the vision and make it plain upon tablets that he may run that readeth it.
For the vision is yet for an appointed time, but at the end it shall speak and not lie.
Though it tarry wait for yet, because it will surely come, it will not tarry.
Behold, his soul which is lifted up is not upright in him, but the just shall live.
by his faith.
Father, I love you.
Help us tonight.
Meet the need of the service in Jesus' name.
Amen.
And amen.
You can be seated tonight.
I want to continue what I started this morning and then continue our study that we're going through on I know a man who can.
I know a man who can.
I preached on I know a man who can save.
Amen.
And I'm glad that he can save from the gutter most of the utter most.
He can save on me, man.
Then I preached on, I know a man who can sustain.
Now I'm glad that he can sustain us tonight, man.
Then I started this morning here out of the book of Habakkuk.
on I know a man who can settle you.
I know a man who can settle you.
As we entered into the book of Habakkuk, about said Hebrews, as we entered into the book of Habakkuk, we noted in verse number one that Habakkuk was under a burden.
He said the burden which Habakkuk the prophet did see.
We began talking about the condition of our country today, the condition of our world,
the condition of even our own community today and how sometimes it seems that there is wickedness everywhere and God is nowhere around.
That's where we find Habakkukah.
Matter of fact, in chapter number one, we dealt this morning with a perplexing problem.
I know some was out this morning in other areas, so give me a minute to review and we'll pick back up tonight.
There was a perplexing problem
chapter number one again he is under a burden because of what is going on in that perplexing problem we noted God's seeming indifference we noted God's seeming
inactive and then we also noted God's seeming inconsistent and there is times and again I'm not going to rehash everything that I said this morning but there is times that we wonder in the back of our mind God where are you at it seems that you're indifferent it seems that you are inactive and there's times where it seems that God is inconsistent it seems that the world is being blessed and the sinner is
being blessed and the child of God is the one that is suffering the most it seems like sometimes and it seems that way so there was this perplexing problem that he was dealing with but then God brought us to chapter number two and the prophet here has a proper perspective God listens to him God listens to his complaint he listens to the problems that he's
having and then there is a proper perspective that is given in chapter number two.
I noted this morning that he starts out with the
I will stand upon my watch.
In other words, Habakkuk is saying, even though there is a perplexing problem, I'm not gonna run from where God has placed me at.
I'm gonna stand where I know that I'm supposed to be at.
And I'm gonna say this to you tonight.
If you run every time a problem comes in your life, all you'll ever do is run.
That's all you'll ever do because man that is born of a woman is a few days in full of troubles.
There's gonna be problems in our life.
There's gonna be times when we don't understand what's going on.
There's gonna be times when the problems are very, very perplexing in our mind.
But we must have a proper perspective of what is going on.
I said this this morning in the proper perspective, there is
the reliability of the scriptures in verse number two regarding the truth of God.
What did he say?
He said, and the Lord answered me and said, write the vision and make it plain upon the tablets that he may run that read of the regarding the truth of God, then regarding the timing of God, the reliability of the scriptures, God's time
MINGA
is always right.
Again, we went to verse number three.
The vision is yet for an appointed time, but at the end it shall speak and not lie, though it teary wait for it because it will surely come regarding the truth of God, regarding the timing of God.
But can I say this to you?
And let me just back up and say this about the timing of God.
Every prophecy, there was prophesies
out in the Old Testament about the Lord Jesus Christ coming and the work of the Lord Jesus Christ has been fulfilled.
And I want to say this to you, when he said, if I go away and prepare a place for you and if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself that where I am, there you may be also hear me and hear me well.
The timing of God at the right time, the dead in Christ shall rise first
and we which are alive in the man should be caught up together with them to meet them in the air and so shall we ever be with the Lord.
The timing of the coming of the Lord, it's all in His timing.
We may not understand everything that's going on.
The world may seem to be waxing worse and worse and we wonder where God is but hear me tonight at the right time I promise you the eastern sky will
and the trumpet God shall sound and we will get out of here.
Thank God.
The timing of God, but not only regarding the truth of God, the timing of God, but regarding the trustworthiness of God.
You can trust God tonight.
I promise you, you can trust God.
I said this this morning, BB McKinney said this.
Have faith in God.
He is on his throne.
He watches over his own.
He cannot fail.
He must prevail.
Have faith in God.
I say, have faith in God.
There is the trustworthiness of God.
So we saw the reliability of the scriptures.
Now I want to pick up here tonight in chapter number two, and I want you to note the retribution of the center, the retribution of the center.
There is a payday coming, not only for the child of God, but for the lost also.
They will not continue to mock God and defile the name of God and get by with it.
The day will come, hear me tonight, that every knee shall bow, and every tongue shall confess that he is Lord.
The devil himself will bow before God one day.
The retribution of the center.
Verse number five and six, listen to what your Bible said.
Yeah, also because he transgresses by wine,
He is a proud man, neither keepeth at home, who enlarges his desires as hell, and is as death, and cannot be satisfied.
But gathereth unto him all nations, and he put unto him all people, shall not all these take up a parable against him.
and taunting Probert against him and say, watch this, woe to him that increases by which is not his, how long?
And to him that leadeth himself with thick clay.
I'm not gonna spend a lot of time on this, but in verse number six, you have the word woe.
In verse number nine, woe to him.
In verse number 12, woe to him.
In verse 15, woe to him.
In verse six, he speaks of this honesty, honesty.
Verse nine in greed.
In verse 12 of violence.
in verse 15 of immorality and in verse 19 of idolatry.
It's like God is saying, Habakkuk, listen to me.
I know about all these sins and I'm going to judge them.
And what we must remember is the meals of God grind slowly, but they grind exceedingly fine.
I promise you the sinner, there will be a retribution
to the center one day.
So chapter number one, there's a perplexing problem.
Chapter number two, there's a proper perspective.
But I've preached all day to get to chapter number three, and that's where I want to center in that for about two hours tonight.
Number three, I promise you, I won't preach that long.
I don't have that much energy.
Number three, I see a profound praise.
I see a profound praise.
You say, preacher, what do you mean?
Here's what I mean.
Once he realized the proper perspective of his perplexing problem, guess what he ended up doing?
Praising God.
Can I just say it this way?
Once he got his eyes off of the situation and onto the sovereign, he began to praise God.
How many times do we keep our eyes on the problems that is around us?
And when we're looking at the storm, there's no way we can have a proper perspective of the Savior.
So in chapter number two, he gets his line corrected.
He gets his mental health lined up with God.
And guess what happens in chapter number three?
Here's exactly what happened.
He breaks out in praise to the king of kings and Lord of lords.
Can I just say this to you?
The problem was still there.
The adversity was still there.
Everything was still going wrong.
But he got his eyes off
of everything going wrong and got his eyes on the king and he said you know what I'll do in the midst of my storm in the midst of my valley in the midst of my heartache in the midst of my world a crumbling get around me I've got my perspective right and I'll praise him in the midst of all of it so chapter number three know what he says in verse number one
a prayer of Habakkuk the prophet upon Shiginoth.
Well, I don't know about you, but when I read chapter three, verse number one, I said, what is Shiginoth?
Okay, maybe y'all didn't.
Maybe y'all just kept going, but I'm just that guy, brother Lloyd.
I wanted to know what Shiginoth was.
So, can I tell you, is that all right?
Can I tell you?
Here's what I found out.
about Shiginoth.
According to Brown driver Briggs Hebrew Lexon, it defines Shiginoth as a dynamic poem suggesting a song with strong emotion or irregular rhythm.
Strong's Concordian gives it the number H7692.
Here's what it says about the word Shiginoth.
It says a rambling poem, probably a passionate song.
The theological workbook of the Old Testament connects the term with the root shaga, meaning to wonder, implying either wondering rhythm or intense emotional movement.
Kelly.
Dell's that commentary of the Old Testament suggests that it refers to an exalted enthusiastic style of poetry.
Now, I said a word that bothers you, some of you, when I said this, intense emotional movement.
We are afraid of that word emotional today.
Well, we're not charismatic.
Nope.
Well, why do you use the word emotional?
Because you are.
I ain't emotional.
You just proved you are.
You ever tell somebody that in blood standing?
But I ain't no emotional person.
Well, you just proved it.
Because you know what?
Anger is an emotion.
We say we're not emotional.
but you walk by one of these redneck trucks out here tonight and catch your shin on the research and you probably don't say hallelujah.
You probably don't say anything that we need to know about.
You tell me the reason why you're emotional.
Our life, we are.
A lot of times, us men say, you know, it's just a bunch of women.
They're just a bunch of emotional roller coasters.
You are too.
Every one of us is emotional.
Now think about this.
What this means to Habakkuk 3?
Habakkuk 3 is not calm theology.
It's explosive worship born out of crisis.
In other words, Habakkuk had been
Oh yes, Habakkuk had been through dark days.
Habakkuk had been through dark valleys.
Habakkuk had been at times where he questioned God and what was going on, but when he got his perspective right, you know what he does?
He explodes with emotion.
He begins to praise God.
He begins to explode in worship to him.
Think about this.
He has questioned in chapter number two, he's questioned God.
In chapter number one, he's questioned God.
In chapter number two, he's wrestled with God.
But when we come to chapter number three, he now begins to worship God.
Shingonoth tells us this prayer is deeply felt.
It's emotionally charged.
It's passionate praise.
One writer even said it this way.
Back at three.
It's theology on fire.
You could say
Shigunoth teaches us that God is not threatened by the intense emotions.
Habakkuk's praise is not cold doctrine.
It is trembling, passionate, mountain moving worship.
What has happened here is that the well springs of joy and praise have now burst loose in the heart of this prophet Habakkuk, even in the midst of dark days.
Can I just say this to you?
If you can't learn to worship in the dark days, you'll never worship in the good days.
If you can't worship in the storm, you're not going to worship when the sun is shining and a backpack breaks forth in chapter number three and says that I worship in the midst of the storm.
Can I just say this maybe?
You say, well preacher, how do I praise in the dark days?
How do I worship in the dark days?
How do I rejoice in the dark days?
Let me give you just two or three things.
I would say this praise is rooted in revelation.
Praise is rooted in revelation.
I'm going to echo some of what I said this morning because we need to get ahold of it.
You say, well preacher, what do you mean by that?
Here's what I mean by that.
I say of 55 said this, his ways are not our ways and our thoughts his thoughts as high as the heavens are above the earth and are his ways above our ways and his thoughts above our thoughts.
Matthew said this, but the very hairs of your head are all
You said preacher watch that God to do with anything.
Here's what it's got to do with it.
Praise is rooted in the revelation of the us that God knows where I'm at.
Even though it might not be the way that I want.
He knows the way that I need.
Even though it may not be the storm that I want.
He knows the storm that I need.
I can't figure it out but what I can figure out is his word is safe.
His word is
He'll never change.
And our praise tonight is rooted in the revelation of God's word.
You don't remember second Samuel chapter number two.
David has now took over part of the throne of Israel.
He's not king of all of Israel yet but he's now took over part of it and they
went on and grew great.
And as you keep reading chapter number two, second Samuel, you'll find that some of David's sons and daughters' names are mentioned.
There's one that's mentioned in there, and his name is this, Eliad.
Whenever you see the Bible days, they just didn't give you a name.
It meant something.
That name, Elijah, means this.
It means my God knows and my God cares.
Can I just remind you of where David had been?
David had been running from King Saul in fear of his life.
David had been hiding out, but not knowing if he was going to live to see another day.
But God had promised him the kingdom.
And as he begins to enter into the kingdom, he says, you know what I think?
I'll name one of my children.
I think I'll name him Eliad because my God knows where I'm at and what I've been through.
knows he cares about me aren't you thankful that we serve a God no matter where we're at or what we're going through he knows where we're at but he also cares man it's one thing to know something it's quite another to care God just don't know your storm he cares about it
You know what, when Peter took his eyes off of him, he hadn't began to sink.
And he said, Lord, save me.
Jesus knew he was sinking.
But he showed that he cared when he stuck out his hand.
Amen.
Oh, yes.
Our praise is rooted in revelation.
But can I say this?
Our praise.
And here's really where I want to get to.
Our praise rest in reliance.
I praise rest in reliant.
I want you to, for the sake of time, I don't have time to read all of chapter three, but go to verse 17.
Go to verse 17.
And you that's looking at your Bible knows there's not but 19 verses.
So there is hope that we're about to get done.
But there's a lot of preaching in these next three verses.
Look what he said in verse 17.
Although the fig tree shall not blossom, neither shall fruit be in the vines.
The labor of the olive shall fail, and the field shall yield no meat.
The flock shall be cut off from the fold, and there shall be no herd in the stalls.
Time out.
Look up here.
They in bad shape.
Can I just say that?
He's already saying he's saying this.
You gotta be from low gap to get to us.
We ain't got nothing.
They in bad shape man.
Look what Habakkuk says in verse 18.
The first word yet.
Even though everything's going wrong.
Even though, even though everything is going wrong.
I will rejoice in the Lord.
What did he say?
He said, I will joy in the God of my salvation.
Look what he said in verse number 19.
The Lord God is my strength.
And He will make my feet like hind's feet.
And He will make me to walk upon my high places to the chief singer on my strength instrument.
You know what he's saying?
Here's what he's saying.
Even though everything's going wrong, even though there is a perplexing problem, there is in verse 17, even though there is a perplexing problem, God has helped me to get my perspective right and to get my side aligned back with Him and my mind aligned back with Him.
And when I do that, my praise rest in my reliance on Him.
Think about this with me.
Habakkuk doesn't just end with emotion.
He ends with dependence.
After the revelation of God's greatness and the decision to rejoice despite empty fields and barren stalls, he anchors himself in this truth.
Now here's what I've preached all day to get.
His praise, his reliance of his praise.
Let me show you it to you.
The Lord God is my
strength.
There was reliance on God's power.
He could praise in the midst of the storm because, brother John, there was a reliance on the power of God.
A reliance on the power of God.
The other day, we was at home and it was cold, wind was blowing, the snow and ice everywhere, and all of a sudden, the power went out.
I sat there for just a few minutes for the rod and thought, well, it's just, you know, just a limb hit it or something.
But after about 10 minutes, the power didn't come back on.
So you know what I did?
I went downstairs.
I got the cord out.
I got the generator set up.
We've got our house set up, and we can run off of a generator.
I walked out there, brother Stan.
I started that generator.
I fixed everything the way it was supposed to be fixed inside.
And in about five minutes, guess what?
Miss Leslie was at the stove.
Somebody say, hey, man, cooking eggs.
The heat was back running.
Are you with me?
You want me to tell you the reason why?
Because my power was reliant on something.
The power company had failed me.
discredit and the power come thank God for the linemen and everybody that got it back on but at that moment it had failed me but i had a backup plan that i could rely on and i listened to me tonight listened to our power is not in a reliance of our self because inside of yourself
You're no good.
Your righteousness is as filthy rags.
And the truth of the matter is this.
There's a lot of times that every one of us is an emotional roller coaster.
When storms come our way and accidents come our way.
And we don't know what to do.
But I'm glad that when I don't know what to do.
And it seems that all of my power is gone.
someone else that I can run to and my reliance is not on my power it's on the power of a thrice holy god the reliance on God's power the Lord Jehovah
capital L, capital O, capital R, capital D speaks of a covenant faithfulness.
Habakkuk is saying this, the covenant keeping God.
He is my source.
The one that said, the Lord is my rock.
Had my fortress, had my deliverer.
Here's what he said in second Corinthians.
My strength is made perfect in weakness.
Praise shields from self-reliance to God's reliance.
the Lord God is my strength tonight.
Listen what I'm going to say to you.
My strength, my stability, my security is not based on the economy.
It's not based on the economy.
It's not based on political stability.
It's not based on favorable circumstances.
It's not even based on my own courage.
It's not based on you.
It's not based on the badness brethren because they'll be the first one to kick you to the curb and leave you high and dry.
I'm telling you what my faith and what my praise is based on tonight.
It's based on a reliance of God's power.
Man will let you down.
The church will let you down.
The world will let
you down on our best day we're just flesh and we'll let each other down oh but aren't you thankful there is a God in heaven that has never let you down and never will let you down it's based on his power there's reliance on God's power there's reliance watch this for stability
It's not only a reliance that's based on God's power.
The reliance of our praise.
It's not just based on God's power, but can I say this to you?
It's a reliance that's based on stability.
Stability.
I know I've usually got everything alliterated out, but I'm just gonna give you the way I wrote it down this time.
Oh, we need today, we need stability.
One of the things that I talked to young couples in,
especially before they get married, one of the things that, how as the wife is this, what's something that you're looking for?
And they'll say this stability.
Financial stability, emotional stability.
Are you with me?
And you know, men, a lot of times, Brother Lloyd, we act like we got it all together for our spouse.
Then once we get their emotions said and get them tucked in bed, we go out somewhere by ourselves and we have a big crying spell.
You say, well, I don't do that, you're too, it'll help you.
Do you hear what I just said?
Jesus Christ himself cried.
That's the problem with a lot of hard-hearted men that are, I gotta be tough.
Look, I'm married.
I got three kids.
I ain't worried about being rough and tough.
There's times I'm telling you, brother Josh, that I'm unstable.
Well, it's gonna, some of you women will be shouting right now.
I'm being some brother miss now about some brother Nancy.
We'd be correct that real quick.
Miss Nancy.
There's some times that I'm brown.
They sometimes I'm unstable.
I'm telling you they spend times in recent days when I didn't know what to do when I didn't know what to do.
I've said this many times what people don't understand a lot of times about a preacher is they actually have life outside of the church and friends outside of the church and a life outside of it.
There's been some times in recent days, man, I've been at some hard places.
Hey, brother John, I didn't know what to do, but tell me, tell you what I could do.
I could run back to him and I could be reliant on his stability.
What's this?
What did he say?
Again, verse number 19, he will make my feet like Heinz feet.
behind or a deer can walk securely on dangerous rock of cliffs without slipping.
Habakkuk is saying this, the terrain may be treacherous, but God will still steady my steps.
God doesn't always remove the mountain, but He does always strengthen our feet for climbing the mountain.
Praise doesn't always change the path.
It changes the pose of us.
is what praise does.
There's reliance on God's power.
There's reliance for stability, but then watch this.
There is the reliance for elevation.
For elevation, what did he say in verse number 19 again?
The Lord God is my strength and He will make my feet like hinds feet.
And He will make me watch this to walk upon my high places
You know what he's saying right there is Ms. Tanya makes her way to the piano.
He's saying this, God will elevate me.
God, you know what happened to Peter that night?
God elevated him from sinking to walking on the very thing that he feared.
That storm did not stop as soon as Peter got back up from falling.
Can I just say it that way?
Study the Bible.
When you study the Bible, the wind ceased.
the storm was still once they got back to the boat and got back in the boat.
That's when the storm sees.
So you know what happened in Peter's life?
God elevated him from the fear of the storm that he was in and allowed him to walk back to the boat and then they got back in the boat and everybody began to praise God.
Why?
Here's the reason why God brought him up from the mess that he was in.
Can I just say this to you?
The mess that Peter got in was Peter's fault.
Wasn't God's fault that he was in that mess?
I could say a lot about whether or not he should have even got out of the boat.
God told him to get in the boat and go the other side.
If Peter would have just stayed in the boat,
I'm boy, I'm gonna kill it dead right now.
But if Peter would have just stayed in the boat, he'd have never been in that mess.
You say the Lord bit him to come.
I know that.
But I personally, Peter should have never even asked him to get out of the boat.
Why?
Because that was his security.
That's what God told him to get in and go to the other side.
But even though he did, can I just say it this way?
He got in a center storm instead of a sovereign storm.
Oh, but aren't you glad?
Can I give you another example?
It's a parable in the Bible, but the prodigal son.
Some people preach it for salvation.
I don't know that there's a wrong way or a right way because it's a parable.
But I'm gonna tell you this, he had always been part of the fathers.
And he left the father's house and went to the world.
and you know what happened when he come to himself and he said you know what I think I'll do I think I'm about to preach myself happy I think I'll go back to the father's house and when he got back to the father's house well guess what
There was a father standing with open arms.
And what happened?
Here's what happened.
The sovereign elevated him.
Thank God when everything's going wrong.
And I don't know what to do.
I can run to God.
And he is my strength.
He is my song.
He's my everything.
He elevated him.
How a place speaks of victory perspective.
or a victory in security.
Habakkuk begins.
Oh, I could preach an hour more.
Habakkuk began this book in confusion.
Maybe you began today in confusion.
Can I just say it that way?
Habakkuk began the book in confusion.
He ends it on the heights.
When you praise in dark days, God lifts you above what is trying to crush you
You may still be in Babylon's shadows, but you're walking on higher ground.
The movement of the chapter is something like this.
Revelation produces understanding.
Rejoicing produces joy.
Reliance produces stability.
Or you could say it this way.
He sees God.
He chooses joy.
And He stands in security.
Can I say it again?
He chooses God.
Or He sees God.
He chooses joy.
And He stands in security.
Praise is not just any emotional stirring
by truth it's a faith standing in truth the back it teaches us that when everything below is shaking we can still stand firm because our strength is not in what we see our strength is not in what we see but our strength is in
who we serve.
Oh, hallelujah.
If I spent a cost to talking tongues right now, it's not in what we see.
I don't know what tomorrow holds.
I don't know what the next order of blood work holds.
I don't know what the next doctor visit holds.
I don't know.
I don't, but my security is not in what I see.
My faith is not in what I see.
My joy is not in what I see.
My faith, my security.
Hey, my joy is in whom I serve tonight.
It's not in you because you will fail me and I will fail you, but it's in him tonight.
And when you get your eyes off of the circumstances, when you get your eyes off of other Christians, when you get your eyes off of the storm and you get your eyes focused on a sovereign God.
It don't matter what in the world is happening around you.
All hell could be breaking loose around you.
But you can say on Christ, the solid rock I stand
He's not gonna change.
Boy, he opened up with a burden, but when he closes out, he closes out with the blessing of God's God, and God will take care of us.
Can I just say it again?
God will take care of us.
David said, I'm not saying the righteous forsaken,
nor a seed bag and bread, God's gonna take care of us.
Amen.